Library/Contributions/manpages/brew.1.md, before:

brew(1) -- The missing package manager for OS X
===============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`brew` [--verbose|-v] command [options] [formula] ...  
`brew` [--version|-v]

## DESCRIPTION

Homebrew is the easiest and most flexible way to install the UNIX tools Apple
didn't include with OS X.

## OPTIONS
  * `-v`, `--verbose` command [options] [formula] ...:
    Prints extra, comand-specific debugging information.
    Note that `brew -v` by itself is the same as `brew --version`.

## COMMANDS

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Print the version number of brew to standard error and exit.

  * `install [--force] [--debug] [--use-llvm] [--ignore-dependencies] [--HEAD]` <formula>:
    Install <formula>.

    <formula> is usually the name of the formula to install, but may also be
    the URL for an arbitrary formula.

    If `--force` is passed, will install <formula> even if it is already
    installed. This can be used to re-install a formula without removing
    it first.

    If `--debug` is passed and brewing fails, open a shell inside the
    temporary folder used for compiling.

    If `--use-llvm` is passed, attempt to compile using the LLVM front-end to GCC.
    *NOTE*: Not all formulae will build with LLVM.

    If `--ignore-dependencies` is passed, skip installing any dependencies of
    any kind. If they are not already present, the formula will probably fail
    to install.

    If `--HEAD` is passed, and <formula> defines it, install the HEAD version,
    aka master, trunk, unstable, dev.

    To install a newer version of HEAD use
    `brew rm <foo> && brew install --HEAD <foo>`
    or `brew install --force --HEAD <foo>`.

  * `install --interactive [--git]` <formula>:
    Download and patch <formula>, then open a shell. This allows the user to
    run `./configure --help` and otherwise determine how to turn the software
    package into a Homebrew formula.

    If `--git` is passed, Homebrew will create a Git repository, useful for
    creating patches to the software.

  * `-S`, `search` <text>|/<text>/:
    Perform a substring search of formula names for <text>. If <text> is
    surrounded with slashes, then it is interpreted as a regular expression.
    If no search term is given, all available formula are displayed.

  * `-S --macports`|`--fink` <text>:
    Search for <text> on the MacPorts or Fink package search page.

  * `update`:
    Fetch the newest version of Homebrew from GitHub using `git`(1).

  * `list`:
    List all installed formulae.

  * `list` <formula>:
    List the installed files for <formula>.

  * `info` <formula>:
    Display information about <formula>.

  * `info --github` <formula>:
    Open a browser to the GitHub History page for formula <formula>.

    To view formula history locally: `brew log -p <formula>`.

  * `info` <URL>:
    Print the name and version that will be detected for <URL>.

  * `home`:
    Open Homebrew's own homepage in a browser.

  * `home` <formula>:
    Open <formula>'s homepage in a browser.

  * `rm`, `remove`, `uninstall [--force]` <formula>:
    Uninstall <formula>.

    If `--force` is passed, and there are multiple versions of <formula>
    installed, delete all installed versions.

  * `create [--cache]` <URL>:
    Generate a formula for the downloadable file at <URL> and opens it in
    $EDITOR. Homebrew will attempt to automatically derive the formula name
    and version, if it fails, you'll have to make your own template. I suggest
    copying wget's.

    If `--cache` is passed, Homebrew will download the <URL> to the cache and
    add the MD5 to the formula for you.

  * `edit` <formula>:
    Open <formula> in $EDITOR.

  * `edit`:
    Open all of Homebrew for editing in TextMate.

  * `ln`, `link` <formula>:
    Symlink all of <formula>'s installed files into the Homebrew prefix. This
    is done automatically when you install formula. It is useful for DIY
    installation, or in cases where you want to swap out different versions of
    the same package that you have installed at the same time.

  * `unlink` <formula>:
    Unsymlink <formula> from the Homebrew prefix. This can be useful for
    temporarily disabling a formula: `brew unlink foo && commands && brew link foo`.

  * `prune`:
    Remove dead symlinks from the Homebrew prefix. This is generally not
    needed, but can be useful when doing DIY installations.

  * `outdated`:
    Show formula that have an updated version available.

  * `deps [--1]` <formula>:
    Show <formula>'s dependencies.

    If `--1` is passed, only show dependencies one level down, instead of
    recursing.

  * `uses [--installed]` <formula>:
    Show the formulas that specify <formula> as a dependency. The list is
    not recursive; only one level of dependencies is resolved.

    If `--installed` is passed, only lists installed formulae.

  * `doctor`:
    Check your system for potential problems.

  * `cat` <formula>:
    Display the source to <formula>.

  * `cleanup` [<formula>]:
    For all installed or specific formulae, remove any older versions from the
    cellar.

  * `log [git-log-options]` <formula> ...:
    Show the git log for the given formulae. Options that `git-log`(1)
    recognizes can be passed before the formula list.

  * `fetch [--force] [-v] [--HEAD]` <formula>:
    Download the source package for the given <formula>. For tarballs, also
    prints MD5 and SHA1 checksums.

    If `--HEAD` is passed, download the HEAD version of <formula> instead. `-v`
    may also be passed to make the VCS checkout verbose, useful for seeing if
    an existing HEAD cache has been updated.

    If `--force` is passed, remove a previously cached version and re-fetch.

  * `audit [--warn]`:
    Check formulae for Homebrew coding style violations. This should be
    run before submitting a new formula for inclusion.

    If `--warn` is passed, perform additional stricter checks that may not need
    to be fixed before submitting.

  * `options` <formula>:
    Display install options specific to <formula>.

  * `missing`:
    Check all installed formuale for missing dependencies.

  * `server`:
    Start a local web app that lets you browse available formulae, similar
    to `gem server`. Requires [`sinatra`][sinatra].

  * `test` <formula>:
    A few formulae provide a test method. `brew test <formula>` runs this
    test method. There is no standard output or return code, but it should
    generally indicate to the user if something is wrong with the installed
    formula.

    Example: `brew install jruby && brew test jruby`

  * `man`:
    Regenerate this man page using [`ronn`][ronn]. See `man brew-man` for details.

  * `--config`:
    Show Homebrew and system configuration useful for debugging. If you file
    a bug report, you will likely be asked for this information if you do not
    provide it.

  * `--prefix`:
    Display Homebrew's install path. *Default:* `/usr/local`

  * `--prefix` <formula>:
    Display the location in the cellar where <formula> is or would be installed.

  * `--cellar`:
    Display Homebrew's Cellar path. *Default:* `/usr/local/Cellar`

  * `--cellar` <formula>:
    Display the location in the cellar where <formula> would be installed,
    without any sort of versioned folder as the last path.

  * `--cache`:
    Display Homebrew's download cache. *Default:* `~/Library/Cache/Homebrew`

  * `--cache` <formula>:
    Display the file or folder used to cache <formula>.

  * `--repository`:
    Display where Homebrew's `.git` folder is located. For standard installs,
    the `prefix` and `repository` are the same folder.

## EXTERNAL COMMANDS

Homebrew allows external commands to be defined by putting a +x file named
`brew-<cmdname>` or `brew-<cmdname>.rb` on the PATH. This will cause Homebrew
to recognize `brew cmdname`.

Some sample commands ship with Homebrew and are enabled by default.

    $ ls `brew --repository`/Library/Contributions/examples



## ENVIRONMENT

  * HOMEBREW\_DEBUG:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to always assume `--debug` when running
    commands.

  * HOMEBREW\_DEBUG\_INSTALL:
    When `brew install -d` or `brew install -i` drops into a shell,
    `HOMEBREW_DEBUG_INSTALL` will be set to the name of the formula being
    brewed.

  * HOMEBREW\_DEBUG\_PREFIX:
    When `brew install -d` or `brew install -i` drops into a shell,
    `HOMEBREW_DEBUG_PREFIX` will be set to the target prefix in the Cellar
    of the formula being brewed.

  * HOMEBREW\_EDITOR:
    If set, Homebrew will use this editor when editing a single formula, or
    several formulae in the same folder.

    *NOTE*: `brew edit` will open all of Homebrew as discontinuous files and
    folders. TextMate can handle this correctly in project mode, but many
    editors will do strange things in this case.

  * HOMEBREW\_KEEP\_INFO:
    If set, Homebrew will not remove files from `share/info`, allowing them
    to be linked from the Cellar.

  * HOMEBREW\_SVN:
    When exporting from Subversion, Homebrew will use `HOMEBREW_SVN` if set,
    a Homebrew-built Subversion if installed, or the system-provided binary.

    Set this to force Homebrew to use a particular svn binary.

  * HOMEBREW\_TEMP:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to use `HOMEBREW_TEMP` as the temporary folder
    for building packages. This may be needed if your system temp folder and
    Homebrew Prefix are on different volumes, as OS X has trouble moving
    symlinks across volumes when the target does not yet exist.

    This issue typically occurs when using FileVault or custom SSD
    configurations.

  * HOMEBREW\_USE\_LLVM:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to use the LLVM front-ends to the GCC
    compilers.

    *NOTE*: Not all formulae build correctly with LLVM.

  * HOMEBREW\_VERBOSE:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to always assume `--verbose` when running
    commands.

## USING HOMEBREW BEHIND A PROXY

Homebrew uses several commands for downloading files (e.g. curl, git, svn).
Many of these tools can download via a proxy. It's common for these tools
to read proxy parameters from environment variables.

For the majority of cases setting `http_proxy` is enough. You can set this in
your shell profile, or you can use it before a brew command:

    http_proxy=http://<host>:<port> brew install foo

If your proxy requires authentication:

    http_proxy=http://<user>:<password>@<host>:<port> brew install foo

## SEE ALSO

Homebrew Wiki: <http://wiki.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/>

`git`(1), `git-log`(1)

## AUTHORS

Max Howell, a splendid chap.

## BUGS

See Issues on GitHub: <http://github.com/mxcl/homebrew/issues>


[ronn]: http://rtomayko.github.com/ronn/
        "Ronn"

[sinatra]: http://www.sinatrarb.com/
           "Sinatra"

Commit message:

Added --use-gcc flag.
This allows you to use llvm as your default compiler and keep the cc symlink
pointed at llvm, while allowing you to build forumla that requires the gcc.

Signed-off-by: Adam Vandenberg <flangy@gmail.com>

Library/Contributions/manpages/brew.1.md, after:

brew(1) -- The missing package manager for OS X
===============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`brew` [--verbose|-v] command [options] [formula] ...  
`brew` [--version|-v]

## DESCRIPTION

Homebrew is the easiest and most flexible way to install the UNIX tools Apple
didn't include with OS X.

## OPTIONS
  * `-v`, `--verbose` command [options] [formula] ...:
    Prints extra, comand-specific debugging information.
    Note that `brew -v` by itself is the same as `brew --version`.

## COMMANDS

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Print the version number of brew to standard error and exit.

  * `install [--force] [--debug] [--use-llvm] [--ignore-dependencies] [--HEAD]` <formula>:
    Install <formula>.

    <formula> is usually the name of the formula to install, but may also be
    the URL for an arbitrary formula.

    If `--force` is passed, will install <formula> even if it is already
    installed. This can be used to re-install a formula without removing
    it first.

    If `--debug` is passed and brewing fails, open a shell inside the
    temporary folder used for compiling.

    If `--use-llvm` is passed, attempt to compile using the LLVM front-end to GCC.
    *NOTE*: Not all formulae will build with LLVM.

    If `--ignore-dependencies` is passed, skip installing any dependencies of
    any kind. If they are not already present, the formula will probably fail
    to install.

    If `--HEAD` is passed, and <formula> defines it, install the HEAD version,
    aka master, trunk, unstable, dev.

    To install a newer version of HEAD use
    `brew rm <foo> && brew install --HEAD <foo>`
    or `brew install --force --HEAD <foo>`.

  * `install --interactive [--git]` <formula>:
    Download and patch <formula>, then open a shell. This allows the user to
    run `./configure --help` and otherwise determine how to turn the software
    package into a Homebrew formula.

    If `--git` is passed, Homebrew will create a Git repository, useful for
    creating patches to the software.

  * `-S`, `search` <text>|/<text>/:
    Perform a substring search of formula names for <text>. If <text> is
    surrounded with slashes, then it is interpreted as a regular expression.
    If no search term is given, all available formula are displayed.

  * `-S --macports`|`--fink` <text>:
    Search for <text> on the MacPorts or Fink package search page.

  * `update`:
    Fetch the newest version of Homebrew from GitHub using `git`(1).

  * `list`:
    List all installed formulae.

  * `list` <formula>:
    List the installed files for <formula>.

  * `info` <formula>:
    Display information about <formula>.

  * `info --github` <formula>:
    Open a browser to the GitHub History page for formula <formula>.

    To view formula history locally: `brew log -p <formula>`.

  * `info` <URL>:
    Print the name and version that will be detected for <URL>.

  * `home`:
    Open Homebrew's own homepage in a browser.

  * `home` <formula>:
    Open <formula>'s homepage in a browser.

  * `rm`, `remove`, `uninstall [--force]` <formula>:
    Uninstall <formula>.

    If `--force` is passed, and there are multiple versions of <formula>
    installed, delete all installed versions.

  * `create [--cache]` <URL>:
    Generate a formula for the downloadable file at <URL> and opens it in
    $EDITOR. Homebrew will attempt to automatically derive the formula name
    and version, if it fails, you'll have to make your own template. I suggest
    copying wget's.

    If `--cache` is passed, Homebrew will download the <URL> to the cache and
    add the MD5 to the formula for you.

  * `edit` <formula>:
    Open <formula> in $EDITOR.

  * `edit`:
    Open all of Homebrew for editing in TextMate.

  * `ln`, `link` <formula>:
    Symlink all of <formula>'s installed files into the Homebrew prefix. This
    is done automatically when you install formula. It is useful for DIY
    installation, or in cases where you want to swap out different versions of
    the same package that you have installed at the same time.

  * `unlink` <formula>:
    Unsymlink <formula> from the Homebrew prefix. This can be useful for
    temporarily disabling a formula: `brew unlink foo && commands && brew link foo`.

  * `prune`:
    Remove dead symlinks from the Homebrew prefix. This is generally not
    needed, but can be useful when doing DIY installations.

  * `outdated`:
    Show formula that have an updated version available.

  * `deps [--1]` <formula>:
    Show <formula>'s dependencies.

    If `--1` is passed, only show dependencies one level down, instead of
    recursing.

  * `uses [--installed]` <formula>:
    Show the formulas that specify <formula> as a dependency. The list is
    not recursive; only one level of dependencies is resolved.

    If `--installed` is passed, only lists installed formulae.

  * `doctor`:
    Check your system for potential problems.

  * `cat` <formula>:
    Display the source to <formula>.

  * `cleanup` [<formula>]:
    For all installed or specific formulae, remove any older versions from the
    cellar.

  * `log [git-log-options]` <formula> ...:
    Show the git log for the given formulae. Options that `git-log`(1)
    recognizes can be passed before the formula list.

  * `fetch [--force] [-v] [--HEAD]` <formula>:
    Download the source package for the given <formula>. For tarballs, also
    prints MD5 and SHA1 checksums.

    If `--HEAD` is passed, download the HEAD version of <formula> instead. `-v`
    may also be passed to make the VCS checkout verbose, useful for seeing if
    an existing HEAD cache has been updated.

    If `--force` is passed, remove a previously cached version and re-fetch.

  * `audit [--warn]`:
    Check formulae for Homebrew coding style violations. This should be
    run before submitting a new formula for inclusion.

    If `--warn` is passed, perform additional stricter checks that may not need
    to be fixed before submitting.

  * `options` <formula>:
    Display install options specific to <formula>.

  * `missing`:
    Check all installed formuale for missing dependencies.

  * `server`:
    Start a local web app that lets you browse available formulae, similar
    to `gem server`. Requires [`sinatra`][sinatra].

  * `test` <formula>:
    A few formulae provide a test method. `brew test <formula>` runs this
    test method. There is no standard output or return code, but it should
    generally indicate to the user if something is wrong with the installed
    formula.

    Example: `brew install jruby && brew test jruby`

  * `man`:
    Regenerate this man page using [`ronn`][ronn]. See `man brew-man` for details.

  * `--config`:
    Show Homebrew and system configuration useful for debugging. If you file
    a bug report, you will likely be asked for this information if you do not
    provide it.

  * `--prefix`:
    Display Homebrew's install path. *Default:* `/usr/local`

  * `--prefix` <formula>:
    Display the location in the cellar where <formula> is or would be installed.

  * `--cellar`:
    Display Homebrew's Cellar path. *Default:* `/usr/local/Cellar`

  * `--cellar` <formula>:
    Display the location in the cellar where <formula> would be installed,
    without any sort of versioned folder as the last path.

  * `--cache`:
    Display Homebrew's download cache. *Default:* `~/Library/Cache/Homebrew`

  * `--cache` <formula>:
    Display the file or folder used to cache <formula>.

  * `--repository`:
    Display where Homebrew's `.git` folder is located. For standard installs,
    the `prefix` and `repository` are the same folder.

## EXTERNAL COMMANDS

Homebrew allows external commands to be defined by putting a +x file named
`brew-<cmdname>` or `brew-<cmdname>.rb` on the PATH. This will cause Homebrew
to recognize `brew cmdname`.

Some sample commands ship with Homebrew and are enabled by default.

    $ ls `brew --repository`/Library/Contributions/examples



## ENVIRONMENT

  * HOMEBREW\_DEBUG:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to always assume `--debug` when running
    commands.

  * HOMEBREW\_DEBUG\_INSTALL:
    When `brew install -d` or `brew install -i` drops into a shell,
    `HOMEBREW_DEBUG_INSTALL` will be set to the name of the formula being
    brewed.

  * HOMEBREW\_DEBUG\_PREFIX:
    When `brew install -d` or `brew install -i` drops into a shell,
    `HOMEBREW_DEBUG_PREFIX` will be set to the target prefix in the Cellar
    of the formula being brewed.

  * HOMEBREW\_EDITOR:
    If set, Homebrew will use this editor when editing a single formula, or
    several formulae in the same folder.

    *NOTE*: `brew edit` will open all of Homebrew as discontinuous files and
    folders. TextMate can handle this correctly in project mode, but many
    editors will do strange things in this case.

  * HOMEBREW\_KEEP\_INFO:
    If set, Homebrew will not remove files from `share/info`, allowing them
    to be linked from the Cellar.

  * HOMEBREW\_SVN:
    When exporting from Subversion, Homebrew will use `HOMEBREW_SVN` if set,
    a Homebrew-built Subversion if installed, or the system-provided binary.

    Set this to force Homebrew to use a particular svn binary.

  * HOMEBREW\_TEMP:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to use `HOMEBREW_TEMP` as the temporary folder
    for building packages. This may be needed if your system temp folder and
    Homebrew Prefix are on different volumes, as OS X has trouble moving
    symlinks across volumes when the target does not yet exist.

    This issue typically occurs when using FileVault or custom SSD
    configurations.

  * HOMEBREW\_USE\_GCC:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to use gcc, even if the system default
    is currently set to LLVM.

  * HOMEBREW\_USE\_LLVM:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to use the LLVM front-ends to the GCC
    compilers.

    *NOTE*: Not all formulae build correctly with LLVM.

  * HOMEBREW\_VERBOSE:
    If set, instructs Homebrew to always assume `--verbose` when running
    commands.

## USING HOMEBREW BEHIND A PROXY

Homebrew uses several commands for downloading files (e.g. curl, git, svn).
Many of these tools can download via a proxy. It's common for these tools
to read proxy parameters from environment variables.

For the majority of cases setting `http_proxy` is enough. You can set this in
your shell profile, or you can use it before a brew command:

    http_proxy=http://<host>:<port> brew install foo

If your proxy requires authentication:

    http_proxy=http://<user>:<password>@<host>:<port> brew install foo

## SEE ALSO

Homebrew Wiki: <http://wiki.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/>

`git`(1), `git-log`(1)

## AUTHORS

Max Howell, a splendid chap.

## BUGS

See Issues on GitHub: <http://github.com/mxcl/homebrew/issues>


[ronn]: http://rtomayko.github.com/ronn/
        "Ronn"

[sinatra]: http://www.sinatrarb.com/
           "Sinatra"
